Describe the discord role management (#12)
neoforged/governance: discord-roles.md

| Infrastructure Team    | Infrastructure Managers           | Involved in the project infrastructure in some way.               | :white_check_mark: |        None         |                None                |
| Docs Team              | Documentation writers             | People with permissions on the docs repo.                         | :white_check_mark: |        None         |                None                |
| Bot Team               | Bot managers                      | People who can manage the bot.                                    | :white_check_mark: |        None         |                None                |
| NeoForged Team         | All team members                  | Catch-all for all the hoisted roles above.                        |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |
| Automation             | Camelot                           | Contains camelot so that it can moderate the public.              |        :x:         |        Gray         |                Gear                |

> | Mojang Team            | Mojangsters                       | Mojang people.                                                    |        :x:         |     Mojang Red      |                None                |

Reviewer: I would dislike calling the role as "Mojang Team", since this too much implies that it is a subteam of the NeoForged Team. Perhaps "Mojangsters" itself suffices, or the endearment "Mojangstas".

> | ModLauncher Team       | McModLauncher Team                | Members of the ModLauncher side project.                          |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |

Reviewer: Technically, McModLauncher is a separate organization under the sole control of @cpw. The members of that organization have a role in our Discord server because our server is the primary communication space for that organization, since nearly all members of that org are also members of the team.

> | Moderator              | Moderators                        | The pingable moderator role.                                      |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |

Reviewer: So, the reason we have a separate pingable role for Moderators in the server currently is because we have two 'classes' of Moderators:

- The full or regular moderators hold the `Moderator` role, with the yellow role name and yellow half-shield icon. These moderators are the full members of the team, with permissions to timeout, warn, kick, and ban as fits their duties.
- The moderators on probation, because of newly joining the team, hold the `Provisional Moderator` role, with the green role name and green outlined shield icon. These moderators have permission to timeout users, manage nicknames, messages, threads, but not the full powers given to Moderators. 
  The intention with this role is that these moderators have enough power for the small daily moderation tasks, but cannot do permanent actions (like kicks or bans) and must consult a regular moderator on the right course of action.

The `Moderators` pingable role is meant to _hoist_ both regular and provisional moderators in the same category under the members panel, since both classes of moderators are still meant to be approachable and pingable for moderation actions, but in a way that doesn't mean provisional moderators have full moderation permissions available to them (if we naively assigned them the Moderators role plus a probation marker role).

Not only is it meant to hoist both regular and provisional moderators on the same category, but also to hoist them separately from any other category, since I believe it to be a good principle that the community know who the moderators are, and who is currently online to be contacted (if not done via role mention).

Author: With respect to the probationary moderators rule. We discussed that in voice. Is that really necessary?

Practically speaking assuming somebody had ill-intentions then the probation will do jack shit, they can wait for three months. And then reak havoc.

It potentially guards against accidents, and that seems exactly not what the probationary moderator rule is designed for.

All in all, this role has practically no reason to exist, other as a safety guard for our own feelings when we add new moderators. Which is completely not needed, because there are many moderators, etc that already handle this. 

Practically speaking the Ban/Kick permission pair, should potentially not even be on moderators at all, but should be done through camelot, because that is a better system. So one could argue that the ban/kick role should be assigned to a special seperate role (Community Manager) and accessible through PIM.

Which is why the concept of seperate Probation Moderator as an entire role was removed, in favor of a general role "Probationary" that indicates that this user is a probie regardless of wether they are moderator or maintainer.

Reviewer 2: I would disagree with ban/kick having to go through the bot. When someone is spamming nasty shit (eg. nsfw bots, which has happened), right-clicking on their name to ban and keeping the "delete messages from the last hour" option, is, in my opinion, much easier to do in a hurry or half-asleep than having to remember the specific sequence of commands needed to do the ban and cleanup manually.

I do however agree that provisional moderator isn't necessary. If we don't trust someone enough to give them a chance, they shouldn't be given a chance. A moderator, like maintainer, should already be known to the community and have proven themselves to be active and helpful in the community in a way that aligns with the project's community principles.

Reviewer 3: I fully agree with Giga's statement here, requiring bot auth every time a troll needs to be banned is too much. OTOH probation with separate perms is probably not required.

Author: I would need to check how the permission is handled. If we can grant the Discord based ban, then it should be easily possible to add it.

If that is not the case we can expand Camelot, because that can also offer you a ban option in the context menu.

| Probation              | New team members                  | Given to new team members.                                        |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |

> | Helper                 | Experts in the community          | Given to experts.                                                 |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |

Reviewer: As I've stated in internal discussions, we can rename this role to be something else than "Helper" if we award this distinction to experts and knowledgable members of our community, which do not carry the expectation of needing to help out in the support channels (or be pinged for support).

Author: I have removed this role for now, until we come up with a better solution

| All Bot Roles          | All bots                          | Discord-demanded integrations.                                    |        :x:         |        None         |                Gear                |

### PIM
PIM stands for Privileged Identity Management, its main goal is to provide a Just-In-Time way of giving users permissions when they need it.
In a controlled and operational fashion. With or without approval of a second person.
This ensures that roles with extreme rights, which when misused (either through hacking or for personal gain) would harm the server and the community.
If an approval is needed for the role, it can only be granted by somebody other than the requester, even if the requester would normally be eligible to approve the role request.
All team members will be eligible for any and all roles exposed via the bot.

#### The PIM Bot
The pim bot is a special sole purpose bot that can be used by team members to request certain roles.
Its command structure is: `/pim <rolename> <reason>` depending on the roles configuration within the bot, the bot will them either directly assign your requested role to you, or ask a specific team for approval.

> When the allotted time for your assignment has passed, the bot will automatically remove the role from you. This way you do not forget, and the risk to the community is minimal.

Reviewer: I've come to disagree on the idea of using a technical solution for what is a server management problem. Partly because it means we are directly beholden to that bot's functioning for managing the server, and without it we would be effectively paralyzed until we temporarily or permanently fix the problem.

I could perhaps agree if this bot supplements a permanent cadre of server administrators, as a fallback for when all those admins are offline and a situation is in dire need of correction--possibly implemented by temporarily creating the role and assigning the person to that role, and then deleting the role afterward--but handling all permissions control to a bot has risks and assumptions which I don't think outweigh the benefits.

Author: Added the admin account.

> ### Discord Ownership
> The ownership of the Discord is Transferred to a special account: `@neoforged.admin` its credentials can be found in the core Vault

Reviewer 3: This document should have some sort of formal introduction, so here we go:
```suggestion
# Discord Roles
With Discord being one of the main community spaces of the NeoForged project, a proper structure for Discord is needed. This document lays out the roles and administration concepts for the NeoForged Discord server.

## Ownership
The ownership of the Discord is held by a special account: `@neoforged.admin`. Its credentials can be found in the Vault, accessible by Steering Council members.
```

> ### Roles

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Roles
```

| Dev Announcement Pings | Added via Discord Join            | Available for anyone to add in Channels & Roles.                  |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |
| Snapshot Guesser       | Whoever guessed the snapshot time | Assigned by a team member.                                        |        :x:         |        None         |                None                |
| All Vanity Roles       | All team members (optionally)     | The only roles with colors.                                       |        :x:         | 1 for each MC Color | 1 for each hoisted role + combined |
| Nitro Booster          | Nitro boosters                    | Handled by the Discord integration.                               |        :x:         |        None         |         Nitro Booster Icon         |
| All Bot Roles          | All bots                          | Discord-demanded integrations.                                    |        :x:         |        None         |                Gear                |

### PIM

> PIM stands for Privileged Identity Management, its main goal is to provide a Just-In-Time way of giving users permissions when they need it.
> In a controlled and operational fashion. With or without approval of a second person.
> This ensures that roles with extreme rights, which when misused (either through hacking or for personal gain) would harm the server and the community, are not directly accessible via Discord alone.
> If an approval is needed for the role, it can only be granted by somebody other than the requester, even if the requester would normally be eligible to approve the role request.
> All team members will be eligible for any and all roles exposed via the bot.

Reviewer 3: For proper markdown formatting, add a new line between each paragraph.
```suggestion
PIM stands for Privileged Identity Management. Its main goal is to provide a just-in-time way of giving users permissions when they need it, in a controlled and operational fashion, with or without approval of a second person.

This ensures that roles with extreme rights, which when misused (either through hacking or for personal gain) would harm the server and the community, are not directly accessible via Discord alone.

If an approval is needed for the role, it can only be granted by somebody other than the requester, even if the requester would normally be eligible to approve the role request.

All team members will be eligible for any and all roles exposed via the bot.
```

#### The PIM Bot

> The pim bot is a special sole purpose bot that can be used by team members to request certain roles.
> Its command structure is: `/pim <rolename> <reason>` depending on the roles configuration within the bot, the bot will them either directly assign your requested role to you, or ask a specific team for approval.
> When the allotted time for your assignment has passed, the bot will automatically remove the role from you. This way you do not forget, and the risk to the community is minimal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The pim bot is a special sole purpose bot that can be used by team members to request certain roles. Its command structure is: `/pim <rolename> <reason>`.

Depending on the configuration within the bot, the bot will then either directly assign the requested role to the team member, or ask a specific team for approval.

When the allotted time for the role assignment has passed, the bot will automatically remove the role from the team member. This way there is no way of forgetting to unassign the role, and the risk to the community is minimal.
```

#### High privilege roles
There are two high privilege roles:
- Server manager
- Role manager

> These roles will be assigned for 6 hours maximum and require an approval of a Steering Council member

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These roles will be assigned for 6 hours maximum and require approval of a Steering Council member.
```

#### Medium privilege roles

> There is currently one medium privilege role:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is one medium privilege role:
```

- Channel Manager

> These roles will be assigned for 12 hours maximum and require an approval of a moderator

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These roles will be assigned for 12 hours maximum and require approval of a moderator.
```

#### Low privilege roles

> There is currently one low privilege role:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is one low privilege role:
```

- Announcer

This role is assigned for 16 hours maximum and does not require an approval.

### Vanity roles.

> There are two kinds of vanity roles: Color and Icon
> Depending on the team, each team will get its own icon, and as such each team member will get an Icon role assigned, potentially multiple.
> The color is freely pick-able by any team member (however each team will get a default color role as well)
> The available colors are the 16 colors from Minecraft, else we will again have a wild mixture of roles.
> One last special vanity role is Automation, which marks all bots.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two kinds of vanity roles: Color and Icon. Depending on the team, each team will get its own icon, and as such each team member will get an Icon role assigned, potentially multiple.

The color is freely pick-able by any team member. It is not allowed for team members to not choose a color.

The available colors are the 16 colors from Minecraft, to limit the amount of roles to a reasonable minimum.

One last special vanity role is Automation, which marks all bots.
```

Author: Already made local changes. Skipping suggestion.
